# Rust API for openapi_client

A minimal API specification for the beacon node, which enables a validator to connect and perform its obligations on the Ethereum 2.0 phase 0 beacon chain.

## Overview
This client/server was generated by the [openapi-generator]
(https://openapi-generator.tech) project.
By using the [OpenAPI-Spec](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification) from a remote server, you can easily generate a server stub.
-

To see how to make this your own, look here:

[README]((https://openapi-generator.tech))

- API version: 0.2.0
- Build date: 2019-06-18T01:27:11.245Z[GMT]

This autogenerated project defines an API crate `openapi_client` which contains:
* An `Api` trait defining the API in Rust.
* Data types representing the underlying data model.
* A `Client` type which implements `Api` and issues HTTP requests for each operation.
* A router which accepts HTTP requests and invokes the appropriate `Api` method for each operation.

It also contains an example server and client which make use of `openapi_client`:
* The example server starts up a web server using the `openapi_client` router,
  and supplies a trivial implementation of `Api` which returns failure for every operation.
* The example client provides a CLI which lets you invoke any single operation on the
  `openapi_client` client by passing appropriate arguments on the command line.

You can use the example server and client as a basis for your own code.
See below for [more detail on implementing a server](#writing-a-server).


## Examples

Run examples with:

```
cargo run --example <example-name>
```

To pass in arguments to the examples, put them after `--`, for example:

```
cargo run --example client -- --help
```

### Running the server
To run the server, follow these simple steps:

```
cargo run --example server
```

### Running a client
To run a client, follow one of the following simple steps:

```
cargo run --example client NodeGenesisTimeGet
cargo run --example client NodeSyncingGet
cargo run --example client NodeVersionGet
cargo run --example client ValidatorAttestationGet
cargo run --example client ValidatorAttestationPost
cargo run --example client ValidatorBlockGet
cargo run --example client ValidatorBlockPost
cargo run --example client ValidatorDutiesGet
cargo run --example client NodeForkGet
```

### HTTPS
The examples can be run in HTTPS mode by passing in the flag `--https`, for example:

```
cargo run --example server -- --https
```

This will use the keys/certificates from the examples directory. Note that the server chain is signed with
`CN=localhost`.


## Writing a server

The server example is designed to form the basis for implementing your own server. Simply follow these steps.

* Set up a new Rust project, e.g., with `cargo init --bin`.
* Insert `openapi_client` into the `members` array under [workspace] in the root `Cargo.toml`, e.g., `members = [ "openapi_client" ]`.
* Add `openapi_client = {version = "0.2.0", path = "openapi_client"}` under `[dependencies]` in the root `Cargo.toml`.
* Copy the `[dependencies]` and `[dev-dependencies]` from `openapi_client/Cargo.toml` into the root `Cargo.toml`'s `[dependencies]` section.
  * Copy all of the `[dev-dependencies]`, but only the `[dependencies]` that are required by the example server. These should be clearly indicated by comments.
  * Remove `"optional = true"` from each of these lines if present.

Each autogenerated API will contain an implementation stub and main entry point, which should be copied into your project the first time:
```
cp openapi_client/examples/server.rs src/main.rs
cp openapi_client/examples/server_lib/mod.rs src/lib.rs
cp openapi_client/examples/server_lib/server.rs src/server.rs
```

Now

* From `src/main.rs`, remove the `mod server_lib;` line, and uncomment and fill in the `extern crate` line with the name of this server crate.
* Move the block of imports "required by the service library" from `src/main.rs` to `src/lib.rs` and uncomment.
* Change the `let server = server::Server {};` line to `let server = SERVICE_NAME::server().unwrap();` where `SERVICE_NAME` is the name of the server crate.
* Run `cargo build` to check it builds.
* Run `cargo fmt` to reformat the code.
* Commit the result before making any further changes (lest format changes get confused with your own updates).

Now replace the implementations in `src/server.rs` with your own code as required.

## Updating your server to track API changes

Later, if the API changes, you can copy new sections  from the autogenerated API stub into your implementation.
Alternatively, implement the now-missing methods based on the compiler's error messages.

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to *http://localhost*

Method | HTTP request | Description
------------- | ------------- | -------------
[****](docs/minimal_set_api.md#) | **GET** /node/genesis_time | Get the genesis_time parameter from beacon node configuration.
[****](docs/minimal_set_api.md#) | **GET** /node/syncing | Poll to see if the the beacon node is syncing.
[****](docs/minimal_set_api.md#) | **GET** /node/version | Get version string of the running beacon node.
[****](docs/minimal_set_api.md#) | **GET** /validator/attestation | Produce an attestation, without signature.
[****](docs/minimal_set_api.md#) | **POST** /validator/attestation | Publish a signed attestation.
[****](docs/minimal_set_api.md#) | **GET** /validator/block | Produce a new block, without signature.
[****](docs/minimal_set_api.md#) | **POST** /validator/block | Publish a signed block.
[****](docs/minimal_set_api.md#) | **GET** /validator/duties | Get validator duties for the requested validators.
[****](docs/optional_set_api.md#) | **GET** /node/fork | Get fork information from running beacon node.


## Documentation For Models

 - [Attestation](docs/Attestation.md)
 - [AttestationData](docs/AttestationData.md)
 - [AttesterSlashings](docs/AttesterSlashings.md)
 - [BeaconBlock](docs/BeaconBlock.md)
 - [BeaconBlockAllOf](docs/BeaconBlockAllOf.md)
 - [BeaconBlockBody](docs/BeaconBlockBody.md)
 - [BeaconBlockCommon](docs/BeaconBlockCommon.md)
 - [BeaconBlockHeader](docs/BeaconBlockHeader.md)
 - [BeaconBlockHeaderAllOf](docs/BeaconBlockHeaderAllOf.md)
 - [CrossLink](docs/CrossLink.md)
 - [Deposit](docs/Deposit.md)
 - [DepositData](docs/DepositData.md)
 - [Eth1Data](docs/Eth1Data.md)
 - [Fork](docs/Fork.md)
 - [GenesisTime](docs/GenesisTime.md)
 - [IndexedAttestation](docs/IndexedAttestation.md)
 - [InlineResponse200](docs/InlineResponse200.md)
 - [InlineResponse2001](docs/InlineResponse2001.md)
 - [ProposerSlashings](docs/ProposerSlashings.md)
 - [Pubkey](docs/Pubkey.md)
 - [SyncingStatus](docs/SyncingStatus.md)
 - [Transfer](docs/Transfer.md)
 - [ValidatorDuty](docs/ValidatorDuty.md)
 - [Version](docs/Version.md)
 - [VoluntaryExit](docs/VoluntaryExit.md)


## Documentation For Authorization
 Endpoints do not require authorization.


## Author



