# Become an Ethereum 2.0 Validator*

---

**The lighthouse testnet is currently down, we expect to raise a new one
before the 22nd of December. See [Lighthouse Update #20](https://lighthouse.sigmaprime.io/update-20.html)
for more information.**

---

_* Testnet validator_

Running Lighthouse validator is easy if you're familiar with the terminal. It
runs on Linux, MacOS and Windows.

Before you start, you'll need [Metamask](https://metamask.io/) and 3.2 gETH
(Goerli ETH). We recommend the [mudit.blog
faucet](https://faucet.goerli.mudit.blog/) for those familiar with Goerli, or
[goerli.net](https://goerli.net/) for an overview of the testnet.

### 1. Download and install Lighthouse

If you already have Rust installed, you can install Lighthouse with the
following three commands:

- `$ git clone https://github.com/sigp/lighthouse.git`
- `$ cd lighthouse`
- `$ make`

You've completed this step when you can run `$ lighthouse --help` and see the
help menu.

> - If you're not familiar with Rust or you'd like more detailed instructions, see
>   the [Installation Guide](./installation.md).
> - The [Docker Guide](./docker.md) is great if you have Docker installed and would
>   like to avoid installing Rust.

### 2. Start your Beacon Node

The beacon node is the core component of Eth2, it connects to other peers over
the Internet and maintains a view of the chain.

Start your beacon node with:

```bash
$ lighthouse beacon --eth1 --http
```

Your beacon node has started syncing when you see the following (truncated)
log:

```
Dec 09 12:57:18.026 INFO Syncing                                 distance: 16837 slots (2 days 8 hrs), ...
```

Don't be overly concerned about the "distance" because "est_time" for syncing will be much lower.

It has finished syncing once you see the following (truncated) log:

```
Dec 09 12:27:06.010 INFO Synced                                  slot: 16835, ...
```

> - The `--http` flag enables the HTTP API for the validator client.
> - The `--eth1` flag tells the beacon node that it should sync with an Ethereum
>   1 node (e.g., Geth). This is only required if you wish to run a validator.
> - We are hosting a public Goerli archive node and have set this as the
>   default, but you can specify your own Eth1 node using the `--eth1-endpoint`
>   flag. Presently we require the node to be a full archive node, but we're
>   working to [fix](https://github.com/sigp/lighthouse/issues/637) this.

### 3. Generate your validator key

Generate new validator BLS keypairs using:

```shell
$ lighthouse account validator new random
```


You've completed this step when you see the equivalent line:

```
Dec 02 21:42:01.337 INFO Generated validator directories         count: 1, base_path: "/home/karl/.lighthouse/validators"
```

> - This will generate a new _validator directory_ in the `.lighthouse/validators`
>   directory. Your validator directory will be identified by it's public key,
>   which looks something like `0xc483de...`. You'll need to find this directory
>   for the next step.
> - These keys are good enough for the Lighthouse testnet, however they shouldn't
>   be considered secure until we've undergone a security audit (planned Jan
>   2020).

### 4. Start your validator client

For security reasons, the validator client runs separately to the beacon node.
The validator client stores private keys and signs messages generated by the
beacon node.

You'll need both your beacon node _and_ validator client running if you want to
stake.

Start the validator client with:

```bash
$ lighthouse validator
```

The validator client is running and has found your validator keys from step 3
when you see the following log:

```
Dec 09 13:08:59.171 INFO Loaded validator keypair store          voting_validators: 1
Dec 09 13:09:09.000 INFO Awaiting activation                     slot: 17787, ...
```

If your beacon node hasn't finished syncing yet, you'll see some `ERRO`
messages indicating that your node isn't synced yet. It is safest to wait for
your node to sync before moving onto the next step, otherwise your validator
may activate before you're able to produce blocks and attestations. However, it
generally takes 4-8+ hours after deposit for a validator to become active. If
your `est_time` is less than 4 hours, you _should_ be fine to just move to the
next step. After all, this is a testnet and you're only risking Goerli ETH.

### 5. Submit your deposit

<div class="form-signin" id="uploadDiv">
	<p>Upload the <code>eth1_deposit_data.rlp</code> file from your validator
	directory (created in step 3) to submit your 3.2 Goerli-ETH
	deposit using Metamask.</p>
	<p>Hint: it's generally in the <code>$HOME/.lighthouse/validators/0x...</code> directory</p>
	<input id="fileInput" type="file" style="display: none">
	<button id="uploadButton" class="btn btn-lg btn-primary btn-block"
							  type="submit">Upload and Submit Deposit</button>
</div>

<div class="form-signin" id="waitingDiv" style="display: none">
	<p>Your validator deposit was submitted and this step is complete.</p>
	<p>See the transaction on <a id="txLink" target="_blank"
											 href="https://etherscan.io">Etherscan</a>
	or <a href="">reload</a> to perform another deposit.</p>
</div>

<div class="form-signin" id="errorDiv" style="display: none">
	<h4 class="h3 mb-3 font-weight-normal">Error</h4>
	<p id="errorText">Unknown error.</p>
</div>

> This deposit is using gETH (Goerli ETH) which has no real value. Don't ever
> send _real_ ETH to our deposit contract!

## Next steps

Leave your beacon node and validator client running and you'll see logs as the
beacon node keeps synced with the network and the validator client produces
blocks and attestations.

It will take some time (minutes to hours) for the beacon chain to process and
activate your validator, however you'll know you're active when the validator
client starts successfully publishing attestations each slot:

```
Dec 03 08:49:40.053 INFO Successfully published attestation      slot: 98, committee_index: 0, head_block: 0xa208…7fd5,
```

Although you'll produce an attestation each slot, it's less common to produce a
block. Watch for the block production logs too:

```
Dec 03 08:49:36.225 INFO Successfully published block            slot: 98, attestations: 2, deposits: 0, service: block
```

If you see any `ERRO` (error) logs, please reach out on
[Discord](https://discord.gg/cyAszAh) or [create an
issue](https://github.com/sigp/lighthouse/issues/new).

Happy staking!




<script src="https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.11.1/jquery.min.js"></script>
<script src="https://maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/3.3.7/js/bootstrap.min.js"></script>
<script charset="utf-8"
		src="https://cdn.ethers.io/scripts/ethers-v4.min.js"
		type="text/javascript">
</script>
<script src="js/deposit.js"></script>
